Pyboard-Firmware-Update.md, before:

## Download

You can download the latest firmware from http://micropython.org/download/.

## Preparation

First, disconnect everything from your pyboard. Then connect the DFU pin with the 3.3V pin (they're right next to each other) to put the board into DFU (*Device Firmware Update*) mode. Now connect the pyboard to your computer via USB.

## Flashing

### dfu-util

First, install dfu-util via your package manager.

You can list all DFU-capable devices using the `-l` argument:

```
$ sudo dfu-util -l
dfu-util 0.5

(C) 2005-2008 by Weston Schmidt, Harald Welte and OpenMoko Inc.
(C) 2010-2011 Tormod Volden (DfuSe support)
This program is Free Software and has ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY

dfu-util does currently only support DFU version 1.0

Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=0, name="@Internal Flash  /0x08000000/04*016Kg,01*064Kg,07*128Kg"
Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=1, name="@Option Bytes  /0x1FFFC000/01*016 e"
Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=2, name="@OTP Memory /0x1FFF7800/01*512 e,01*016 e"
Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=3, name="@Device Feature/0xFFFF0000/01*004 e"
```

If desired, backup the original firmware (this doesn't work with dfu-util 0.5, but does with 0.7 or newer).
Previous releases of micropython are available from: http://micropython.org/download/ so performing a backup shouldn't be necessary.

```
$ sudo dfu-util --alt 0 --upload pyboard-original.dfu -s:524288
(...)
Starting upload: [#######] finished!
```

Then write the downloaded firmware to the pyboard:

```
$ sudo dfu-util --alt 0 -D pybv10-2014-05-19-v1.0.1-24-g5cdff5f.dfu 
(...)
done parsing DfuSe file
```

Disconnect the pyboard from USB and remove the jumper between the DFU and the 3.3v ports.

### dfu-programmer

Some other DFU programmer. TODO: Document.

### On Windows

TODO: Document

Commit message:

note added: specify dfu device if there is more than one available

Pyboard-Firmware-Update.md, after:

## Download

You can download the latest firmware from http://micropython.org/download/.

## Preparation

First, disconnect everything from your pyboard. Then connect the DFU pin with the 3.3V pin (they're right next to each other) to put the board into DFU (*Device Firmware Update*) mode. Now connect the pyboard to your computer via USB.

## Flashing

### dfu-util

First, install dfu-util via your package manager.

You can list all DFU-capable devices using the `-l` argument:

```
$ sudo dfu-util -l
dfu-util 0.5

(C) 2005-2008 by Weston Schmidt, Harald Welte and OpenMoko Inc.
(C) 2010-2011 Tormod Volden (DfuSe support)
This program is Free Software and has ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY

dfu-util does currently only support DFU version 1.0

Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=0, name="@Internal Flash  /0x08000000/04*016Kg,01*064Kg,07*128Kg"
Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=1, name="@Option Bytes  /0x1FFFC000/01*016 e"
Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=2, name="@OTP Memory /0x1FFF7800/01*512 e,01*016 e"
Found DFU: [0483:df11] devnum=0, cfg=1, intf=0, alt=3, name="@Device Feature/0xFFFF0000/01*004 e"
```

If desired, backup the original firmware (this doesn't work with dfu-util 0.5, but does with 0.7 or newer).
Previous releases of micropython are available from: http://micropython.org/download/ so performing a backup shouldn't be necessary.

```
$ sudo dfu-util --alt 0 --upload pyboard-original.dfu -s:524288
(...)
Starting upload: [#######] finished!
```

Then write the downloaded firmware to the pyboard:

```
$ sudo dfu-util --alt 0 -D pybv10-2014-05-19-v1.0.1-24-g5cdff5f.dfu 
(...)
done parsing DfuSe file
```

> **NOTE:**
>
> If you have other DFU capable devices connected to you machine (*for example an Apple Magic Mouse*), and you receive the following message:
>
> `More than one DFU capable USB device found, you might try '--list' and then disconnect all but one device`
>
> you may want to disconnet all other devices, or specify which device's firmware you want to edit by passing either `--device` or the shorter `-d` flag to `dfu-util`. Example:
>
> `$ sudo dfu-util --alt 0 -D pybv10-2014-05-19-v1.0.1-24-g5cdff5f.dfu -d 0483`

After the the program finished, disconnect the pyboard from USB and remove the jumper between the DFU and the 3.3v ports.

### dfu-programmer

Some other DFU programmer. TODO: Document.

### On Windows

TODO: Document
